Popular programming languages

1.	C# -  multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing, imperative, declarative, functional,procedural, generic, object-oriented (class-based), and component-oriented programming disciplines. It was developed by Microsoft within its .NET initiative and later approved as a standard by Ecma (ECMA-334) and ISO (ISO/IEC 23270:2006). C# is one of the programming languages designed for the Common Language Infrastructure. C# is built on the syntax and semantics of C++, allowing C programmers to take advantage of .NET and the common language runtime. 
Paradigm(s) - multi-paradigm: structured,imperative, object-oriented,event-driven, functional,generic, reflective,concurrent
Appeared in – 2000

2.	C - C is one of the most widely used programming languages of all time, and C compilers are available for the majority of available computer architectures and operating systems.  C is an imperative (procedural) language. Many later languages have borrowed directly or indirectly from C, including D, Go, Rust, Java, JavaScript, Limbo, LPC, C#, Objective-C, Perl, PHP,Python, Verilog (hardware description language), and Unix's C shell. These languages have drawn many of their control structures and other basic features from C. Most of them (with Python being the most dramatic exception) are also very syntactically similar to C in general, and they tend to combine the recognizable expression and statement syntax of C with underlying type systems, data models, and semantics that can be radically different. C++ and Objective-C started as compilers that generated C code; C++ is currently nearly a superset of C, while Objective-C is a strict superset of C. 
Paradigm(s) - Imperative (procedural), structured
Appeared in - 1972

3.	C++ - C++ is a general purpose programming language that is free-form and compiled. It is regarded as an intermediate-level language, as it comprises both high-level and low-level language features. It provides imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features. C++ is one of the most popular programming languages and is implemented on a wide variety of hardware and operating system platforms. As an efficient performance driven programming language it is used in systems software, application software, device drivers, embedded software, high-performance server and client applications, and entertainment software such as video games. Various entities provide both open source and proprietary C++ compiler software, including the FSF, LLVM, Microsoft and Intel. C++ has influenced many other programming languages, for example, C# and Java.
Paradigm(s) - Multi-paradigm:  procedural, functional, object-oriented, generic
Appeared in – 1983
C++ introduces object-oriented programming (OOP) features to C

4.	Java - Java is a computer programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object-oriented, and specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible. Java is, as of 2014, one of the most popular programming languages in use, particularly for client-server web applications, with a reported 9 million developers. The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++, but it has fewer low-level facilities than either of them.
Paradigm(s) - multi-paradigm: object-oriented, structured,imperative, generic,reflective, concurrent
Appeared in – 1995

5.	JavaScript - JavaScript (JS) is a dynamic computer programming language. It is most commonly used as part of web browsers, whose implementations allow client-side scripts to interact with the user, control the browser, communicate asynchronously, and alter the document content that is displayed. It is also being used in server-side programming, game development and the creation of desktop and mobile applications. JavaScript is a prototype-based scripting language with dynamic typing and has first-class functions. Its syntax was influenced by C. JavaScript copies many names and naming conventions from Java, but the two languages are otherwise unrelated and have very different semantics.
Paradigm(s) - Multi-paradigm: scripting,object-oriented (prototype-based), imperative,functional
Appeared in – 1995

6.	Ruby - Ruby is a dynamic, reflective, object-oriented, general-purpose programming language. It was designed and developed in the mid-1990s by Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto in Japan. It supports multiple programming paradigms, including functional, object-oriented, and imperative. It also has a dynamic type system and automatic memory management.
Paradigm(s) - multi-paradigm: object-oriented, imperative,functional, reflective
Appeared in – 1995

7.	Python - Python is a widely used general-purpose, high-level programming language Its design philosophy emphasizes code readability, and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code than would be possible in languages such as C. The language provides constructs intended to enable clear programs on both a small and large scale. Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative and functional programming or procedural styles. It features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management and has a large and comprehensive standard library. Like other dynamic languages, Python is often used as a scripting language, but is also used in a wide range of non-scripting contexts
Paradigm(s) - Multi-paradigm: object-oriented, imperative,functional, procedural,reflective
Appeared in – 1991

8.	PHP - PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language. PHP is now installed on more than 244 million websites and 2.1 million web servers. PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module, which generates the resulting web page: PHP commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data. It has also evolved to include a command-line interface capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications. PHP is a general-purpose scripting language that is especially suited to server-side web development where PHP generally runs on a web server.
Paradigm(s) - imperative, functional, object-oriented, procedural, reflective
Appeared in - 1995




